---
title: "GitHub 102"
publisted: true
---
Github is very intimidating. It's not just you. That's why I created a simple tutorial of the most used commands. Please refer to [GitHub 101](../../15/github) for the basics.

## Setup GitHub.com and Git
If you have not, go to [github.com](https://github.com) to create an account. Also, introduce yourself on git.
```console
git config --global user.name "Enter your full name within the quotes"
git config --globall user.email enter_email_without_quotes@example.com
```
It's always cool to help you, help yourself. View the most used git commands:
```console
git --help 
```
For more information about a specific git command: 
```console
git commit --help
```
```console
git help commit
```
Use your up and down arrow to navigate Github's comprehensive starter guide:
```console
git help tutorial
```
## Starting a Project
1. Create project on your computer
2. Create project on Github.com
3. Clone project on Github.com

Option 1: Go to your desired folder. It can be empty or have file or folders that you have worked on. Start a new project, with git init:
```console
git init
git commit -am "Put a message within the quotes"
```
Option 2: On your Github.com account, create a new repository. Don't worry about gitignore and readme.md. Replace link with the address bar link of your project. To bring your project from Github.com to your computer, use git clone:
```console
git clone link
```
Option 3: If there is a project on Github.com that you want on your computer, get the project link and use git clone:
```console
git clone https://github.com/github/personal-website
```

## Editing within your Computer
Anything you save, will not be saved on Git or GitHub.com. Remember to be in the correct directory. 
Git status shows staged files. Notice the differnce of git status before and after git add. Take a snapshot of new or modified files or folders with git add:
```console
git status
git add -A
git status
```
Git log shows commits on your computer. Notice the differnce of git log before and after git commit. The snapshot from above is saved with git commit:
```console
git log
git commit -m "Enter message"
git log
```
If you commit without -m or pull, you will enter vim. Vim is a minimal text editor so the page will be mostly blank. 
To exit, type the following then press enter:

```console
:q
```
From before this point, nothing has changed from Github.com. Note, git pull then git push or you may get an error. Also, you may prompted to enter your Github.com credentials. If you have proper permissions for the project, the project on GitHub.com will be updated with git push:
```console
git pull
git push
```
Confirm changes by going on Github.com.

In summary, to save all work in working directory to Github.com:
```console
git add -A
git commit -m "Enter message"
git pull
git push
```
I hope this tutorial made Github less intimidating.

