---
title: "Bad Information"
published: true
---
With the 2020 Presidential elections coming up, there is a lot of bad information flying through the airwaves of social media.

I thought that I could easily spot mis-leading or false information and that I would not let be influenced or influence others with that bad information.

I was 100% wrong and it took me a while to admit that.

Let's break down how wrong was I:

# I thought that I could easily spot mis-leading or false information

Social media and news networks are to entertain and not to inform. Therefore, I treat it as such. I do not fact check every claim, I do not read past many baity titles, I do not watch full press conferences for context, I do not do a reverse search to check for image manipulation.

That's because it is not my job as a journalist and does not influence anything, right?

# I would not let be influenced with bad information

I do not need to fully believe bad information to be influenced by it. That is not the point. A lot of times bad information is planting seeds so you can cast doubt on a system or person.

# I would not influence others with bad information

In class, I brought up a questionable claim that I knew and mentioned came from an unrealiable source. Too Late. Now, this information is seeded in others minds and they can share it and think about it with others. With social media, this process is 10x faster and 10x more toxic.

Bad information is here to stay. it will always be a losing battle to fight the effects of bad information.
